sdk/packages/colony-starter-react/README.md, before:

# colony-starter-react

_A boilerplate to get started with [colonyJS](https://github.com/JoinColony/colonyJS) using React!_

## Prerequisites

- Node `>=10.12.0`
- Yarn `>=1.12.0`
- Docker `>=18.09.0`

_You may find it helpful to use Node Version Manager (`nvm`) to manage Node versions._

_If you are using Linux, check out [Linux Setup](/.github/LINUX_SETUP.md) to ensure Yarn and Docker are set up accordingly._

## Installation

### Step 1

Globally install the [colony-cli](/packages/colony-cli) package:

```
yarn global add @colony/colony-cli
```

### Step 2

Move to your working directory and unpack the [colony-starter](/packages/colony-starter) package:

```
colony build colony-starter-react
```

### Step 3

Move to your new project directory and follow the instructions below:

```
cd colony-starter-react
```

### Using NPX

Alternatively, you can use [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) and unpack the [colony-starter-react](/packages/colony-starter-react) package without installing the [colony-cli](/packages/colony-cli) package:

```
npx -p @colony/colony-cli colony build colony-starter-react
```

## Development

### Start Network

Open a new terminal window and start [Ganache](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache-cli):

```
yarn start-ganache
```

### Deploy Contracts

Open a new terminal window and deploy the [colonyNetwork](https://github.com/JoinColony/colonyNetwork) contracts:

```
yarn deploy-contracts
```

### Start TrufflePig

Once the contracts have been deployed, start [TrufflePig](https://github.com/JoinColony/trufflepig):

```
yarn start-trufflepig
```

### Seed Network

Open a new terminal window and run the seed network script:

```
yarn seed-network
```

### Colony Setup

Once the network has been seeded, run the colony setup script:

```
yarn colony-setup
```

### Start Server

Once your colony has been set up, start the development server:

```
yarn start
```

### Open Browser

Open your browser and start building your app:

[localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)

### Run Tests

Open a new terminal window and run the example tests:

```
yarn test
```

## Contract Versions

If you do not want to use the default version of the [colonyNetwork](https://github.com/JoinColony/colonyNetwork) smart contracts defined by the [colony-cli](/packages/colony-cli) package, you can update the `"deploy-contracts"` scripts property in your `package.json` file to use a specific version. This can be a branch name, a commit hash, or a version tag.

```
"deploy-contracts": "colony service deploy-contracts --specific develop",
```

Commit message:

Add pull docker image to npx instructions

sdk/packages/colony-starter-react/README.md, after:

# colony-starter-react

_A boilerplate to get started with [colonyJS](https://github.com/JoinColony/colonyJS) using React!_

## Prerequisites

- Node `>=10.12.0`
- Yarn `>=1.12.0`
- Docker `>=18.09.0`

_You may find it helpful to use Node Version Manager (`nvm`) to manage Node versions._

_If you are using Linux, check out [Linux Setup](/.github/LINUX_SETUP.md) to ensure Yarn and Docker are set up accordingly._

## Installation

### Step 1

Globally install the [colony-cli](/packages/colony-cli) package:

```
yarn global add @colony/colony-cli
```

### Step 2

Move to your working directory and unpack the [colony-starter](/packages/colony-starter) package:

```
colony build colony-starter-react
```

### Step 3

Move to your new project directory and follow the instructions below:

```
cd colony-starter-react
```

### Using NPX

Alternatively, you can use [npx](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) and unpack the [colony-starter-react](/packages/colony-starter-react) package without installing the [colony-cli](/packages/colony-cli) package.

Pull down the docker image:

```
docker pull ethereum/solc:0.4.23
```

Build the colonyStarter package using `npx`:

```
npx -p @colony/colony-cli colony build colony-starter-react
```

## Development

### Start Network

Open a new terminal window and start [Ganache](https://github.com/trufflesuite/ganache-cli):

```
yarn start-ganache
```

### Deploy Contracts

Open a new terminal window and deploy the [colonyNetwork](https://github.com/JoinColony/colonyNetwork) contracts:

```
yarn deploy-contracts
```

### Start TrufflePig

Once the contracts have been deployed, start [TrufflePig](https://github.com/JoinColony/trufflepig):

```
yarn start-trufflepig
```

### Seed Network

Open a new terminal window and run the seed network script:

```
yarn seed-network
```

### Colony Setup

Once the network has been seeded, run the colony setup script:

```
yarn colony-setup
```

### Start Server

Once your colony has been set up, start the development server:

```
yarn start
```

### Open Browser

Open your browser and start building your app:

[localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080)

### Run Tests

Open a new terminal window and run the example tests:

```
yarn test
```

## Contract Versions

If you do not want to use the default version of the [colonyNetwork](https://github.com/JoinColony/colonyNetwork) smart contracts defined by the [colony-cli](/packages/colony-cli) package, you can update the `"deploy-contracts"` scripts property in your `package.json` file to use a specific version. This can be a branch name, a commit hash, or a version tag.

```
"deploy-contracts": "colony service deploy-contracts --specific develop",
```
