docs/_API_AuthorityClient.md, before:

---
title: AuthorityClient
section: API
order: 4
---

The `AuthorityClient` is a standard interface for interactions with functions and events described in `Authority.sol`.

TODO write me

==TOC==

  
## Callers

**All callers return promises which resolve to an object containing the given return values.** For a reference please check [here](/colonyjs/docs-contractclient/#callers).

### `getUserRole.call({ user })`

Get the given user's role.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|user|Address||

**Returns**

A promise which resolves to an object containing the following properties:

|Return value|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|role|Authority Role||

### `hasUserRole.call({ user, role })`

For the given user's address and role, return true if the user has that role.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|user|Address||
|role|Authority Role||

**Returns**

A promise which resolves to an object containing the following properties:

|Return value|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|hasRole|boolean||

  
## Senders

**All senders return an instance of a `ContractResponse`.** Every `send()` method takes an `options` object as the second argument. For a reference please check [here](/colonyjs/docs-contractclient/#senders).
### `setUserRole.send({ user, role, enabled }, options)`

Enable or disable a particular role for a user's address (default behaviour: enable the role).

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|user|Address||
|role|Authority Role||
|enabled|boolean||

**Returns**

An instance of a `ContractResponse`

Commit message:

Add copy to Authority API doc.

docs/_API_AuthorityClient.md, after:

---
title: AuthorityClient
section: API
order: 4
---

The `AuthorityClient` is a standard interface for interactions with functions and events described in `Authority.sol`.

In the current implementation of the Colony Network, some events on-chain are not mediated by reputation scores as described in the whitepaper. Rather, certain actions within a colony that would ordinarily require some minimum reputation are assigned an 'authority' of Colony Owner and Colony Admin. This includes colony-wide actions such as minting new colony tokens as well as the creation and finalization of tasks.

Note: these authority roles are distinct from the 'roles' assigned in a task (manager, worker, and evaluator); because 'authority' roles are intended to be replaced by reputation-mediated authority in subsequent versions of the colonyNetwork, the overlapping terminology will be temporary. 


==TOC==


## Callers

**All callers return promises which resolve to an object containing the given return values.** For a reference please check [here](/colonyjs/docs-contractclient/#callers).

### `getUserRole.call({ user })`

Get the given user's role.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|user|Address||

**Returns**

A promise which resolves to an object containing the following properties:

|Return value|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|role|Authority Role||

### `hasUserRole.call({ user, role })`

For the given user's address and role, return true if the user has that role.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|user|Address||
|role|Authority Role||

**Returns**

A promise which resolves to an object containing the following properties:

|Return value|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|hasRole|boolean||


## Senders

**All senders return an instance of a `ContractResponse`.** Every `send()` method takes an `options` object as the second argument. For a reference please check [here](/colonyjs/docs-contractclient/#senders).
### `setUserRole.send({ user, role, enabled }, options)`

Enable or disable a particular role for a user's address (default behaviour: enable the role).

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|user|Address||
|role|Authority Role||
|enabled|boolean||

**Returns**

An instance of a `ContractResponse`
