---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

### Contents

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

### `Tokens`

Tokens are always identified and passed by their ERC20 compatible contract address. TODO: elaborate and explain how tokens work in functions

// This might need to wait until the BYOT scheme has been decided

### `Pots`

All funding within a colony resides in pots. Pots can be thought of as 'earmarked' funds for a specific purpose, and depending on context, might be called a bounty, a budget, working capital, or rewards.  A colony will have many pots, but at a minimum will have one pot for rewards ( `pots[0]` ) and one for working capital ( `pots[1]` ).

When domains (and tasks within those domains) are created, they each are assigned a newly created pot, which can then be funded with the `moveFundsBetweenPots` function. This action will eventually be mediated by a user's reputation score, but for now is merely permissioned based on the roles defined in `Authority.sol` (meaning only colony owners and admins may create new pots and move funds between pots).

Every colony has a special pot, `pots[0]`, which accrues funds by taking a small percentage of colony revenue. Members of the colony may claim rewards from this pot based on the number of colony tokens they have.

### `Tasks`

TODO: We really need some good explanation on tasks.

Tasks are one of the basic building blocks of a Colony.

Tasks are identified by a unique `{ taskId }`, and contain:

| type | description |
|------------|---------|
|`string`|What work should be done for the task to be considered complete (the task specification)|
|`string` |What work was done to fulfill the task (task deliverable)|
|`boolean`|Whether or not the task has been finalized|
|`boolean`|Whether or not the task has been cancelled|
|`number` |A due date for completion|
|`number` |A payout for the task upon successful completion|
|`number` |A pot from which the payout should be disbursed (read more about (pots)[glossary#pots])|
|`number` |A timestamp for the work that was done|
|`number` |That task's associated domain(s)  |
|`number` |Any skills associated with the task|

Tasks can be created by the `createTask` function, and cancelled by the `cancelTask` function.

### `Roles`

Every task has three roles associated with it which determine permissions for editing the task, submitting work, and ratings for performance. In the `colonyNetwork` contracts, the roles are represented as 8 bit numbers to keep permission logic simple.

| role Id | Description |
|------|------|
|`0`| A task's MANAGER role is by default the creator of the task, and usually expected to be the person to accept the task as complete when the work is done.
|`1`| A task's EVALUATOR role is a person who will independently establish the quality of the work done by the WORKER.  
|`2`| A task's WORKER role is the person who will fulfill the requirements of the task as specified in the task brief.

A `Role` object looks like this (for a specific task):

```solidity
  address user; // Address of the user for the given role
  bool rated; // Has the user work been rated
  uint8 rating; // Rating the user received
```

Once created, the task may be modified directly by its MANAGER, or by anyone else through the `proposeTaskChange` workflow.

### `Changing a task`

Changes to a task before it has been finalized are permitted with approval from the MANAGER role through the `proposeTaskChange` method.

| Function | Description |
|----------|-------------|
|`proposeTaskChange` | When invoked by a role other than the MANAGER of a task, the transaction is stored on-chain to await approval by the MANAGER of the task.|
|`approveTaskChange`| Approves a proposed change to a task and allows the transaction to be executed. |
|`setTaskDueDate`| Assigns the due date of the task. |
|`setTaskBrief` | sets a new `specificationHash` for a revised task brief. |
|`setTaskSkill` | Tags the task with a specific skill or skills|
|`setTaskDomain`| Assigns one or more domains to a task. |
|`setTaskRoleUser` | will take an address and assign it to the role of MANAGER, WORKER, or EVALUATOR. |
| `setTaskManagerPayout`, `setTaskWorkerPayout`, and `setTaskEvaluatorPayout` | Sets the payout to the role specified for upon task finalization.|

### `Work Ratings`

Work ratings are an essential part of completing the lifecycle of a task. In order for a task to be complete, the MANAGER role must approve of the work submitted.

| Function | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `submitTaskDeliverable` |
| `submitTaskWorkRating` |
| `assignWorkRating` |
| `generateSecret` |
| `revealTaskWorkRating` |
| `claimPayout` |

### `Rating of work`

Before a task can be finalized, the work must be rated to determine the correct payouts. For every task, the WORKER rates the MANAGER, and the EVALUATOR rates the WORKER.

Because it's undesirable for these ratings to influence each other, rating submissions follow a commit and reveal pattern:

Ratings are submitted by the WORKER and EVALUATOR during the commit period, which begins either when the worker submits their work to the task (by sending `submitTaskDeliverable`), or when the task reaches its due date, whichever comes first. The commit period lasts for approximately 5 days.

After both (secret) ratings have been submitted or the commit period has expired, whichever comes first, the reveal period begins and lasts for another 5 days. During the reveal period, both WORKER and EVALUATOR reveal their ratings by re-submitting them together with the same `_salt` used previously. These values are then checked on-chain to show that they are the same as what was submitted during the commit period.

In the event that any party fails to commit or reveal their ratings, their counterpart is assumed to be the highest possible rating, and their own rating is decreased by 5.
