docs/glossary.md, before:

---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

### Contents

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

### `Tokens`

Tokens are always identified and passed by their ERC20 compatible contract address. TODO: elaborate and explain how tokens work in functions

### `Tasks`

TODO: We really need some good explanation on tasks.
Tasks have auto-incrementing integer `taskId`s counting from 1 (TODO: make sure that's correct), so the total count of tasks in a Colony will equal the last `taskId` created.
- Tasks can have different payouts for each role
- Tasks can have different tokens for payout

### `Pots`

TODO: Improve this

Pots can be tied to tasks or to (in the future) domains, so giving them their own mapping.
Pot 1  can be thought of as the pot belonging to the colony itself that hasn't been assigned
to anything yet, but has had some siphoned off in to the reward pot.
Pot 0 is the pot containing funds that can be paid to holders of colony tokens in the future.


### `Rating of work`

TOOD: I think here we should explain how the whole task rating process works.

- submitTaskWorkRating
- revealTaskWorkRating
- assignWorkRating
- generateSecret
- getTaskWorkRatings
- getTaskWorkRatingSecret

### `Roles`

Three roles:
 - Manager (0)
 - Evaluator (1)
 - Worker (2)

A `Role` object looks like this (for a specific task):

```solidity
  address user; // Address of the user for the given role
  bool rated; // Has the user work been rated
  uint8 rating; // Rating the user received
```

TODO: Expand on this more. What scale does the rating have? When can someone be rated and which roles can be rated by whom?

Commit message:

Added some content to the glossary on tasks; ammended commenting.

docs/glossary.md, after:

---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

### Contents

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

### `Tokens`

Tokens are always identified and passed by their ERC20 compatible contract address. TODO: elaborate and explain how tokens work in functions

### `Tasks`

TODO: We really need some good explanation on tasks.

Tasks are one of the basic building blocks of a Colony.

Tasks are identified by a unique `{ taskId }`, and contain:

| type | description |
|------------|---------|
|`string`|What work should be done for the task to be considered complete (the task specification)|
|`string` |What work was done to fulfill the task (task deliverable)|
|`boolean`|Whether or not the task has been finalized|
|`boolean`|Whether or not the task has been cancelled|
|`number` |A due date for completion|
|`number` |A payout for the task upon successful completion|
|`number` |A pot from which the payout should be disbursed (read more about (pots)[glossary#pots])|
|`number` |A timestamp for the work that was done|
|`number` |That task's associated domain(s)  |
|`number` |Any skills associated with the task|

### `Pots`

TODO: Improve this

Pots can be tied to tasks or to (in the future) domains, so giving them their own mapping.
Pot 1  can be thought of as the pot belonging to the colony itself that hasn't been assigned
to anything yet, but has had some siphoned off in to the reward pot.
Pot 0 is the pot containing funds that can be paid to holders of colony tokens in the future.


### `Rating of work`

TOOD: I think here we should explain how the whole task rating process works.

- submitTaskWorkRating
- revealTaskWorkRating
- assignWorkRating
- generateSecret
- getTaskWorkRatings
- getTaskWorkRatingSecret

### `Roles`

Every task has three roles associated with it which determine permissions for editing the task, submitting work, and ratings for performance. In the `colonyNetwork` contracts, the roles are represented as 8 bit numbers to keep permission logic simple.

| role Id | Description |
|------|------|
|`0`| A task's MANAGER role is by default the creator of the task, and usually expected to be the person to accept the task as complete when the work is done.
|`1`| A task's EVALUATOR role is a person who will independently establish the quality of the work done by the WORKER.  
|`2`| A task's WORKER role is the person who will fulfill the requirements of the task as specified in the task brief.


A `Role` object looks like this (for a specific task):

```solidity
  address user; // Address of the user for the given role
  bool rated; // Has the user work been rated
  uint8 rating; // Rating the user received
```

TODO: Expand on this more. What scale does the rating have? When can someone be rated and which roles can be rated by whom?
