packages/colony-js-client/docs/_API_AuthorityClient.template.md, before:

---
title: AuthorityClient
section: API
order: 4
---

The `AuthorityClient` is a standard interface for interactions with functions and events described in `Authority.sol`.

In the current implementation of the Colony Network, some events on-chain are not mediated by reputation scores as described in the whitepaper. Rather, certain actions within a colony that would ordinarily require some minimum reputation are assigned an 'authority' of Colony Owner and Colony Admin. This includes colony-wide actions such as minting new colony tokens as well as the creation and finalization of tasks.

|                                     | Owner | Admin |
|-------------------------------------|-------|-------|
| `setToken`                          | X     |       |
| `mintTokens`                        | X     |       |
| `addGlobalSkill` (Meta Colony only) | X     |       |
| `addDomain`                         | X     | X     |
| `moveFundsBetweenPots`              | X     | X     |
| `startNextRewardPayout`             | X     | X     |
| `createTask`                        | X     | X     |
| `cancelTask`                        | X     | X     |
| `setAdmin`                          | X     | X     |
| `removeAdmin`                       | X     |       |

Note: these authority roles are distinct from the 'roles' assigned in a task (manager, worker, and evaluator). See the [task lifecycle](/colonyjs/docs-task-lifecycle/) for a summary of task roles.

==TOC==

Commit message:

Add authority roles description to AuthorityClient docs.

packages/colony-js-client/docs/_API_AuthorityClient.template.md, after:

---
title: AuthorityClient
section: API
order: 4
---

The `AuthorityClient` is a standard interface for interactions with functions and events described in `Authority.sol`.

In the current implementation of the Colony Network, some events on-chain are not mediated by reputation scores as described in the whitepaper. Rather, certain actions within a colony that would ordinarily require some minimum reputation are assigned an 'authority' of Colony Owner and Colony Admin. This includes colony-wide actions such as minting new colony tokens as well as the creation and finalization of tasks.

The roles of `OWNER` and `ADMIN` are able to call certain specific functions on the Colony Network, which are not permitted by addresses without an authorityRole defined.


|                                     | Role: `OWNER` | Role: `ADMIN` |
|-------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| `setToken`                          | X             |               |
| `mintTokens`                        | X             |               |
| `addGlobalSkill` (Meta Colony only) | X             |               |
| `addDomain`                         | X             | X             |
| `moveFundsBetweenPots`              | X             | X             |
| `startNextRewardPayout`             | X             | X             |
| `createTask`                        | X             | X             |
| `cancelTask`                        | X             | X             |
| `setAdmin`                          | X             | X             |
| `removeAdmin`                       | X             |               |

Note: these authority roles are distinct from the 'roles' assigned in a task (manager, worker, and evaluator). See the [task lifecycle](/colonyjs/docs-task-lifecycle/) for a summary of task roles.

==TOC==
