packages/colony-js-client/docs/_API_ColonyNetworkClient.template.md, before:

---
title: ColonyNetworkClient
section: API
order: 2
---

The `ColonyNetworkClient` is a standard interface for interactions with functions and events described in `IColonyNetwork.sol`.

These interactions are generally concerned with the colony network as a whole, rather than at the colony level. This includes operations like getting a count of all colonies on the network, querying for information about a parent skillId, or deposits/withdrawals of staked CLNY for use in the reputation system.

You can learn more about the solidity implementation from the [Colony Network Docs](/colonynetwork/docs-colony).

For interactions within a particular colony, see [the ColonyClient docs](/colonyjs/api-colonyclient/).

==TOC==

## Creating a new instance

Assuming you're inside an `async` function:

```javascript
const networkClient = new ColonyNetworkClient({ adapter });
await networkClient.init();
```

## Instance methods

**All instance methods return promises.**

### `getColonyClientByAddress(contractAddress)`

Returns an initialized ColonyClient for the contract at address `contractAddress`

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|contractAddress|Adress|Address of a deployed Colony contract|

**Returns**

`Promise<ColonyClient>`. An instance of a `ColonyClient` associated with the given Colony contract

### `getColonyClient(id)`

Returns an initialized ColonyClient for the specified id of a deployed colony contract.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|key|string|Name of the Colony to get|
|id|number|Integer number of the Colony|

**Returns**

`Promise<ColonyClient>`. An instance of a `ColonyClient` associated with the given Colony contract

### `getColonyAddress(id)`

Get the address of a Colony for the specified id of a deployed colony contract.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|key|string|Name of the Colony to get|
|id|number|Integer number of the Colony|

**Returns**

`Promise<Address>`. The address of the given Colony contract

### `getMetaColonyClient()`

Gets the Meta Colony as an initialized ColonyClient

**Returns**

`Promise<ColonyClient>`. An instance of a `ColonyClient` associated with the MetaColony contract

Commit message:

Minor docs formatting and fixes

packages/colony-js-client/docs/_API_ColonyNetworkClient.template.md, after:

---
title: ColonyNetworkClient
section: API
order: 2
---

The `ColonyNetworkClient` is a standard interface for interactions with functions and events described in `IColonyNetwork.sol`.

These interactions are generally concerned with the colony network as a whole, rather than at the colony level. This includes operations like getting a count of all colonies on the network, querying for information about a parent skillId, or deposits/withdrawals of staked CLNY for use in the reputation system.

You can learn more about the solidity implementation from the [Colony Network Docs](/colonynetwork/docs-colony).

For interactions within a particular colony, see the [ColonyClient API](/colonyjs/api-colonyclient/).

==TOC==

## Create an instance

You can create an instance of `ColonyNetworkClient` by providing an [adapter](/colonyjs/docs-adapters):

```js

const networkClient = new ColonyNetworkClient({ adapter });

await networkClient.init();

```

## Instance methods

**All instance methods return promises.**

### `getColonyClientByAddress(contractAddress)`

Returns an initialized ColonyClient for the contract at address `contractAddress`

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|contractAddress|Adress|Address of a deployed Colony contract|

**Returns**

`Promise<ColonyClient>`. An instance of a `ColonyClient` associated with the given Colony contract

### `getColonyClient(id)`

Returns an initialized ColonyClient for the specified id of a deployed colony contract.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|key|string|Name of the Colony to get|
|id|number|Integer number of the Colony|

**Returns**

`Promise<ColonyClient>`. An instance of a `ColonyClient` associated with the given Colony contract

### `getColonyAddress(id)`

Get the address of a Colony for the specified id of a deployed colony contract.

**Arguments**

|Argument|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|key|string|Name of the Colony to get|
|id|number|Integer number of the Colony|

**Returns**

`Promise<Address>`. The address of the given Colony contract

### `getMetaColonyClient()`

Gets the Meta Colony as an initialized ColonyClient

**Returns**

`Promise<ColonyClient>`. An instance of a `ColonyClient` associated with the MetaColony contract
